have you ever felt like everyone on
Earth is gaming on a NASA supercomputer
while you're stuck with a potato PC well
I just bought a $1,000 PC thinking that
I was on top of the world but then I
open YouTube and every single person has
a GPU that costs more than my whole
setup and because I'm exposed to so many
people who have expensive computers this
made me want to buy one too but there's
just one problem I am extremely poor I
can't just buy a $
7,222 PC to one up the competition but
then I remembered there are also a lot
of people out there who have the same
amount of fun gaming on the worst setups
maybe not this one though so instead of
spending more money to make my way up
I'm going to find the cheapest PC in the
world and optimize it until every single
game is playable to prove that you can
play the same games as these rich kids
without spending your entire life
savings because you know what they say
it's not about how much we have but how
much we enjoy
it the first step to optimizing a $50 PC
is to find one so where are we going to
find the cheapest PC well Amazon has $50
PCS but combined with the shipping price
we're going to go way over our budget
and we can't buy it from eBay because
it's either the PC is too expensive or
it's straight up too to even be
usable fortunately I have a few potato
PCS just lying around from 2012 to 2014
this is a 2012 Lenovo think center with
an i53570 and right now you can buy a
think center with the same CPU for 30
bucks which is nuts because it was
released for
$730 I would rather listen to ksi's new
song for 5 seconds straight than pay
$730 for this thing bro I'm in the th of
everybody and that might not sound that
crazy until you realize that you can
build a pretty high-end gaming PC for
just $700 in 2024 but since we only
spent $30 of our $50 budget I
conveniently got the worst graphics card
of all time the gt710 which conveniently
sells for around 20 bucks on the used
Market with a whopping 2 GB of vram in a
time where 8 GB isn't enough this is the
one thing that might stop us from being
able to enjoy the newest games of 2024
but actually there's one more thing that
might stop you from enjoying the newest
games and that one thing is lag and this
is where exit lag comes into play it's
an app that drops and stabilizes your
ping in hundreds of different games by
optimizing your routes to the game
servers and my ping got noticeably
better in fortnite reload dropping from
27 to 22 and my ping in Battle Royale
dropped from 20 to just 10 ping I tried
to find free alternatives to Exile when
I first started making videos but
nothing was as good as the results I got
with this app so I'm super glad to
partner with them for this video
especially since they've been the most
reliable and most popular gaming VPN in
every online gaming Community for years
now so if you want to get rid of lag and
get lower ping get a free trial with the
link in the description and of course it
doesn't ask you for your credit card
information all you have to do is make
an account with an email address and
once you have the app select from over
1,000 supported games and watch your lag
spikes in every online game disappear
for less than five bucks a month I
promise you you won't be disappointed
appointed but wait a second isn't this
the same CPU and GPU combo as my dad's
7-year-old PC from this video well that
PC was actually from 2012 and because of
all the mean but also very helpful
comments about the dead SSD killing our
FPS we got him a new SSD which will make
it slightly less unusable so I decided
to give this computer another chance
okay so now that we have the $50 PC in
hand we can now decide on two goals that
determine whether or not a game counts
as playable so this is what I came up
with get at least 60 FPS in all
competitive Esports games and at least a
cinematic 24 FPS in all story games
however neither of these challenges were
the hardest challenge of this video
remember how I just put in a new SSD
well my dad already filled it up with
8,000 photos so because each game takes
up to 100 GB I ended up spending over 40
hours just to download and install all
these games not only that but with the
new games being more and more
graphically demanding and less and less
optimized even the fastest gpus
including my $400 6900 XT can struggle
to play them so to make this potato work
we're going to have to do some crazy
black magic this setup is so old it
doesn't even have HDMI now that we got
our first game installed we're going to
be testing all types of games starting
from 2012 all the way up to 2024 to see
just how far we can push this $50 PC
first up is 2012 which was an
unbelievable year for video games with
Halo 4 and Black Ops 2 dropping in the
same year 2012 was objectively an
amazing year for video games with
bangers on top of bangers it was hard to
choose which one I want wanted to test
but I ended up choosing Far Cry 3 and
don't hate me for this but I've honestly
never played this game because up until
2016 my only consoles were the PSP and
the Wii I didn't even have Wi-Fi at the
time so y'all got to forgive me for this
and now you might think that the 2016
gt710 would be able to handle old games
from 2012 to 2015 because technology
advances so quickly but you would be
completely wrong because the gt710 is
not really a graphics card but more like
a glorified HDMI port if you look at
2020s list of GPU releases you'll notice
that the slowest card release that year
is still a very solid card for 1080p to
this day and still meets minimum
requirements of even the newest most
demanding games of 2024 but the gt710
doesn't even meet the minimum
requirements for games that came out
before it so we were in for a bumpy
pixelated ride this is quite the gaming
experience we're playing cursor
multiplying simulator there's a
difficulty that's worse than malaria bro
this would not slide in 2024 so because
the HD game trailer wasn't set 720p
we're going to be doing 720p High to
ultra settings in the intro cut scene
we're doing way better than I expected
but the actual gameplay on the other
hand was not a playable gaming
experience so I did have to drop the
settings down to low and we did reach
the goal of getting 24 FPS on a single
player game and even at low settings Far
Cry 3 is looking damn good for a 2012
game and it's definitely playable so for
a $50 PC that definitely gets a pass
next up is 2013 which reminded me of how
long it's been since we got a new GTA
game I went from grade three to
University in the time it took for these
to make a single video game
anyways for the 2013 Benchmark you know
I had to try Tomb Raider on 720p low
settings and it passed the 24 FPS Mark
pretty comfortably averaging 42.7 FPS
moving on to 2014 we got Mario Kart 8
Titanfall and Five Nights at Freddy's
hello everybody my name is welcome and
we're going to be testing Dark Souls 2
which is not the most loved from soft
game but I still think it's pretty good
only problem is that I forgot the FPS
count so you're just just going to have
to look at the footage and decide how
much fps you think that is to me that
looks way over 24 FPS and we could
definitely crank up the settings if we
wanted to so far these games on 720p low
settings have been pretty light on this
PC and we're easily getting above 24 FPS
but just before I was about to make the
challenge harder 2015 had something to
say and it wouldn't let us get 24 FPS
that easily 2015 was probably my
favorite year for gaming not because it
was a huge part of my childhood but it
just had so many good games it's easily
a top three for gaming and it's hard to
debate against bloodborne Witcher 3
Arkham Knight and my personal favorite
game of all time rise of the Tomb Raider
but after these benchmarks I started to
question whether or not I actually like
this game anymore because even with my
FPS counter disabled you can just tell
that we're struggling to hit the 24 FPS
Mark and we finished with a measly 16
FPS I have more years on this Earth than
FPS in this game this is extremely bad I
would rather watch t Tua than play this
game at 16 FPS you know you know I
thought 720p looked pretty bad on a
22-in monitor but we're going to
downgrade to 800x 600 and we're still
getting only 22 FPS so it is time to
start optimizing this PC I honestly
wasn't expecting to have to optimize my
computer this early in the video but
rise of the Tomb Raider really wanted us
to fail not only that but it looks like
my optimizing app also wants me to fail
because it won't let me use my premium
account so we're going to have to use
the free optimizations to try to get us
up to 24 FPS after using those those
free tweaks I continued optimizing my PC
with my own optimization guide but the
issue is that that guide was designed
for fortnite which is a CPU based game
and because it's only the GPU that's
causing the low FPS optimizing the CPU
did not help us very much at all see
with these optimizations I was able to
boost my FPS on my main PC from 180 to
200 FPS in this game and if you do the
math that is an 11% performance increase
so you would expect us to get the same
11% increase to boost our FPS from 22 to
24 but reality we only got 02 more FPS
but fortunately I came prepared and set
my graphics card to OC mode which barely
helped us at all usually overclocking
helps a ton especially when we're
bottlenecked by the GPU so I boosted the
clock speed even more and we still only
have 23.8 3 FPS but that isn't exactly
24 FPS so I tried boosting my clock
speeds even higher and if you remember
the last time I overclocked my GPU this
much I ended up freezing my computer so
this time I overclocked my GPU knowing
full well that I could freeze this
potato um what the ski we're seriously
running out of options here if I can't
get this to work this video will be a
huge failure but we're way too far in to
give up so sadly I have to cheat by
using lossless scaling if you've never
heard of this app before it's a super
cool software that can upscale your
games and you can even generate new
frames this worked extremely well on my
personal PC as well as my old gaming
laptop but in order to multiply your FPS
with two times or three times frame
generation you need at least some fps to
start with because multiplying Zero by
any number will still give you zero so
not only do we have too little fps to
properly use frame generation but
because the GPU we have is too weak to
process those frames in the first place
we somehow decreased our FPS with this
app lossless scaling more like lossless
failing you know what every time I make
an unfunny joke I'm just going to put a
meme normally at this point I would give
up on the challenge but I've already
spent over 10 hours on this video we're
only 4 years into the challenge and we
still have 9 years worth of games to try
before we can say that every game is
playable on this $50 PC so to keep this
challenge going I'm sadly going to have
to count the 23.8 3 FPS as a success
because I know for a fact that the next
games we're going to test will be much
easier to run than 2015's Tomb Raider
2016 was arguably a top three year for
gaming as well coming out with Uncharted
4 Dark Souls 3 and doom since Dark Souls
I went so well for us I expected the
third game in the series to be about as
easy to run but the only easy thing here
was coming up with a fire name for my
character we were only able to get 24
FPS by staring into the ground or
looking into the sky but 2017 is where
you will see a huge change of scenery
because fortnite is a CPU based game in
every single player game we've tested so
far the GPU was bottlenecking the CPU
constantly running at 100% while the
i53570 was just chilling but with a CPU
dependent game like fortnite we managed
to get way above 100 FPS while looking
into the sky but you might be thinking
this doesn't count we have to see real
gameplay not just looking into the sky
and this is where my PC starts to
stutter like crazy as my FPS begins to
stutter in replay mode in both build
mode as well as zero build so if you're
going to play fortnite in 720p you might
want to spend a bit more than 50 bucks
on your PC though we had a stuttery
gaming experience in 2017 2018 wasn't
going to let us have any type of
experience at all shadow of the Tomb
Raider one of the best looking games of
2018 gave us our very first warning
telling us that our newest driver was
still too old to run this game this is
just devastating news for our 14
graphics card because we're getting 7
FPS in the main menu dude we're not even
in the game yet I didn't even want to
Benchmark the game because I'm scared
it's going to make me want to rip my
eyes out and with the next games being
basically impossible to play I thought
it would be a good idea to change the
Challenge from getting 24 fps to opening
the game because I really thought the
worst GPU of 2014 would be able to at
least handle games released a few years
after it came out but no any game past
2014 is just going to be too much for
this guy and to add on to the previous
year 2019 was not going to let this
gt710 survive with the minimum
requirements for Resident Evil 2 being
at gtx960 the gt710 got absolutely
cooked even in 720p but hey at least the
game opened and I think this is the
first time that I've ever been disgusted
by a hamburger like why does it look so
disgusting next was 20120 and this year
was really a huge turning point in
gaming as the pandemic hit and
multiplayer games like Among Us Fall
Guys and valerin came into the scene the
original plan was to try cyberpunk 2077
but I test that game in pretty much
every video so I decided to switch
things up a bit at this time so I tested
fall guys instead it's a pretty casual
game with extremely simple controls and
a few tryhards here and there so for the
most part it is still playable between
30 and 40 FPS and at 720p lowest
settings that is not a bad result for a
game from 2020 2021s life is strange 3
ran pretty consistently between 20 and
40 FPS and my favorite game from 2022
stray was doing all right at 360p not
too good for 2023 I know you guys want
to see Starfield Spider-Man 2 or balers
Gate 3 but we don't have enough SSD
space for a single one of these games
150 GB so I downloaded counter- strike 2
knowing that the gt710 is guaranteed to
work until it didn't I have the newest
driver installed and all my background
apps are closed but CS2 just didn't want
to boot up so unfortunately we're going
to have to take an L here even though I
know the gt710 can handle this game
after 2023 is the true test of longevity
2024 the 1080 TI which came out a year
after the gt710 handled black myth
Wukong on high settings with no problem
but the gt710 gave us yet another driver
warning it recommended a driver update
that doesn't even exist for the gt710
and The Benchmark tool simply does not
work on my PC probably because the game
sees that I am nowhere near the minimum
requirements but hey if you don't care
about the newest games from the past
couple years this $50 PC will do just
fine and remember this thing cost less
than a lot of the video games we tried
playing on it and if you want to see me
succeed and get 1500 FPS on two
different graphics cards at the same
time watch this video next